now brothers and sisters we come to a thing in the lesson in
which if you have studied the tajid rules makes life very easy and simple
but if you are absolutely new to Arabic then this concept will take some time to sink
in because Arabic language has 29 letters
of alphabet most of the people they will say 28 but I read one scholar she's from
England she's a doctor of language and when I read her book I felt you know she was saying something which made lot of
sense to us brother if there are 28 letters then you are using alif as a
Hamza but then what about Al if itself you know but when you say 20 9
letters then you are using 28 of them as consonant and one which is Al if is has
no speech sound when you say A you did not say Al if you said Hamza are you
with me brother and sisters so out of those 28 consonants they are divided equally into
two groups uh in English we call them Moon letters and Sun letters brother are you familiar
with it have you all done your Taj sister are you familiar with this Moon letters and Sun
letters I I went through the book okay sister
Salma you sometimes NAA little bit Muhammad you have done so what happens
brother you have to now get used to this uhuh in the
sense that maybe I should write down
no I I you know I I I use different pens but here I'm not using different pens so
I will I don't know how can I maybe maybe I will do little trick
here in Al if I will write the whole alphabet brother but then I will Circle them this this is
on are you with me this is son
now I am going to put them all these are all Sons
huh these are all sons and then we
have I'm sure most of you know brother and sisters
then we have L also a sun and then we have
mean which is not sun and then we have noon which is
sun in my book I wrote it in different colors uh and then we have
ha and then V and then yah okay are you with me brothers and
sisters H now since we are doing this we have to learn little extra things
brother Hamza are you with me Hamza there are two kinds of
Hamza we're going to learn two kinds of Hamza one is called
ham ham Hamza of assimilation
ham Hamza of assimilation and the other one is called
ham okay now in the Quran which are printed in India Pakistan they do not
differentiate between these two brother they do not differentiate between these two but the Quran which are printed in
the Middle East they are Hamas are clearly identified and I think it is extremely
extremely important that we should follow the method which is in coming
from Middle East because Arabic is their language they know it okay so what is
the difference brother there are about eight or nine
nouns in which brother and sisters Hamza when it comes it's
ham okay we are going to learn it slowly slowly you do not I I don't want to write everything on the board I will
just introduce to you ham as it will come in the lesson but I will try to explain you that in
detail what happens with ham number one if I write down brother and
sisters what is this brother no alif has no
sound no it is Hamza alif has no sound it is Hamza huh what is it Hamza but you
see you are reading is Al you gave a vowel sign on Hamza and you gave a sukon
on lamb are you with me brother every time you will see Al you will read it Al
without vowel signs and you know there's a fat here and there is a sukun here you
know know it brother and sisters now I'm not putting them
okay if I write alab I will write like this but if I write
brother what did I write downar
what did I write down Ahmed do you see I put the thing here this is the neck
of what is it neck of I put it huh okay
Hamza is written as a neck of the okay tell me why I did not put here and
I put it here probably uh you you don't know
but you can figure out sister Salma okay I will explain yes no no no because this
is ham and this is ham when the ham comes you got to
pronounce it whenever it comes and wherever it
comes but h was brother Hassan it will be only pronounced if it begins the
sentence begins with it otherwise you will not pronounce it are you with me brother if I say Al and
then write down the sentence uh begins with
Al but suppose if I were to add here wow now what will
become why did you not pronounce Hamza brother why did you not pronounce brother any
reason s Salma the reason is that it Isam it gets
assimilated uh when does it get assimilated when it comes in the in the
middle or it has some other word or uh particle in front of
it then you do not pronounce it so what is this W it is
remember conjunction when it came in front
of you did not pronounce you will say but if I had to write down here were
what will you do you cannot skip now are you with me brother and sisters you cannot skip it
now so here is the simple a statement about Hamza that there are two kinds of
Hamza one is ham and one is ham ham brothers and
sisters if it starts the sentence of it is in the front then it is pronounced
otherwise if something else comes in the front or if it comes in the middle of a sentence you won't pronounce it but ham
you will always always always pronounce no matter where it comes so how do we
differentiate how do we differentiate so whenever there is a ham you will not put the Hamza
sign H Brother Sam you won't put Hamza sign but there is a
ham you will put that sign there and because most of us are our parents are
from India Pakistan and we are used to India Pakistan script whenever you write you always write like
this and my teacher always used to say in a red ink she would write
down k on it to tell me that this is you must put the neck of a on it to
differentiate if you only wrote then this is technically incorrect
you have to write down with the neck of are you with me brother and sisters now in order to tell
people that this is ham you don't write anything but you put a little sign
it's kind of a small swad this sign
brother tells you that this is this is for those who uh have
difficulty okay in uh identifying but once you get used to it you know it see
it's like a the beginning of a SWAT little okay so this is whatam andam is
so the Hamza of Al is ham okay now what happens if the letters
are in English we call it Moon letters uh and in Arabic we call
it huh Moon letter okay that's why I try to put
little little uh bit of extra here brother and sisters this is Sun
okay now when you have Al coming brother and sisters when you have
aling when you're Al coming okay if it is a moon letter you will pronounce
it what will you pronounce you will pronounce the the the the
lamb huh see you will pronounce the lamb right now here I
have go to page number 19 and see for yourself huh
brother go to page number 19 in the textbook brother and sisters what is the first
brother Al Abu
huh no I did not put any sign there because that is ham I did not put any sign because there
is a ham so it is Al if I put W in front of
it brother Abdul khad it will become Wu are you with me it will
become so without anything in front I will pronounce it as Al Abu I'll
pronounce is that Al Abu so I did pronounce lamb are you with me I did pronounce
lamb but if I okay the next letter letter is and it is written here
Al are you with me put wow in front you will say compare that
to we come to th
now how will you pronounce this now you did not Pronounce
Al you did not pronounce lamb okay you did not pronounce you skipped it huh
okay you see your tongue has to touch you know the upper part of your
mouth inside so brother and sister okay now this sh is given to tell
you that this letter is shami that is later on you won't need it
your mind will figure out brother huh okay I always give this example don't
mind my don't mind my example s you see for us as non-arabs we have to make a
special effort to learn all these things but a but a child who is
raised an Arabic home uh it is in their blood uh all these things are in their
blood and I always say how come it is in the blood then I said oh now I remember when the child was born you know new
baby the first time that baby sucks the milk from his or her mother the Arabic
is passed on to him the whole Arabic goes to him with
the first sucking of the milk okay they know it it comes to them naturally but
for us we have to make an special effort but we will get there Allah will help us
and we will Master it inshallah so brother Whenever there is a sun letter you will not
pronounce lamb you will not pronounce lamb so let's follow this then we come
to S see I put Sun there huhuh so what is the sun if what is the noun
given dress what is tajer merch Merchant
brother brother abdad is a tajer huh brother saleim is a tajer they are businessman
okay then we have gin brother you will pronounce lamb the garden are you with me brother
okay now then there's
a and then there's a bread are you with me brother and then
we you see it's very easy if you were to memorize it brother Abdul khad as soon as you come to
DAL there's a chain of of some letters are you with me there's a chain
of some letters till you stop at I so these are all Sun letters huh so it's
easy so just remember Dal Shin those are
all Sun letters and when you will pronounce them with alif Lam you will
not pronounce L okay look at this brother come to number three and go down huh come to number three and go
down uh not Al are you with
me sister Fatima come sit next to Sister Naima here in the
front how are you okay Mas nice to see you sister the
next one brother
gold H gold okay and then
brother are you with me in our book inshah the signs will be given but later on we will get used to
it brother the man not Al
huh it will be wrong to sayu it will be we won't pronounce l why because it is a
sunl and then brother the
flower my daughter's name is z same
okayu fish see asaku huh and then Ash
Shu no Al no l when I say I I I shouldn't say Al I say I should say no
lamb Hamza is pronounced but if wow came put W in front of this you'll
say even Al and L both were assimilated okay and then
brother the chest the guest guest M
okay and then not Al
but F okay and if you have W then it will
become then brother back your
back okay and then
okay meat okay and then we
have okay fine brother and sisters and we left at number six brother and sisters ALU
the ey we pronounce l okay and
lunch lunch okay brother and sisters
ALU mouth
Fu mouth ALU and it is W there then okay
the moon ALU the dog ALU the
water Al brother ha is not Udu word ha is
Arabic word most of the I mean I shouldn't say most but so many words in
Udu language are derived or borrowed from Arabic langage whenever Udu
language needs a word a new word uh she goes to the Arabic and
borrows the word without even saying thank you they just go and borrow it okay okay
yes air huh ha air brother I'm sorry brother I you know I should translate it
because everybody doesn't understand U yeah but it is so common you know these
like you'll be surprised by the that uh Arabic you know is is Borrowed by so
many other languages and Udu 50% of Udu are so you can say roughly or little less maybe so we have
here like previously we had then Al Al now we have
and it will become got the idea so now Dr abim is
bringing the sunl brother see the wisdom he will always teach us peace by
peace he did not mix everything together it would have confused us having
learned up to page number 15 and there he only used Moon letters that is his
cleverness and now the sunl comes had he used everything together we would have got confused you know the students will
say sometimes you are using Al sometimes you're lamb sometimes you are not losing lamb what's going on here now we
understand from here onwards that the Arabic alphabet is divided into two
parts Sun letters and moon letters huh
Al Al sh fine Brother then how will you say
definite we are now practicing brother okay make it
definite okay very good brother now comes our simple
sentence what is it brother got the idea brother and sister
before we did only now we have so how will you pronounce
brother you did not pronounce lamb okay next one ISU
before we said those are all Moon letters now we
have Sun letter brother
seear the sugar is sweet
the student is sick what do you find here brother and sisters what is going on what's going on
here there's a and there's a don't uh move your site from keep that
ready to figure out inshah the rooster is beautiful fine
copy book d means copy book copy book is new the copy book is
new is always
G the businessman is Rich okay and then
see du you say in U but is Arabic brother is also
Arabic how do you say the store is
open fine Brother what is nine see Dr s is very clever he brought
now a moon letter huh
the boy is poor and then the apple is delicious so and then
we have see now we are saying w we did not
pronounce Hamza why you did not pronounce Hamza you pronounce Hamza in the beginning you pronounce and now
you're not pronouncing it why because they are ham it if it comes in the beginning of the sentence you pronounce
it and then if something comes in front of it you don't pronounce do you follow you know the the logic behind
it you started the sentence so there is no sign you'll pronounce then we
said you did not pronounce Hamza okay because
it's got the idea brother and sisters now put the vowel signs properly at the
end brother and sisters but you have to yes but rather put W signs everywhere just for the practice of it ready
brother and sisters what is the first word alab is it Moon letter or sun
letter Moon letter you did pronounce lamb Al huh what is the next one
brother you did not pronounce l why you did not pronounce because it is Sun letter got the idea brother
inshah next one brother you did not pronounce l because
noon is a shami sun letter next one brothers and sisters yes sister
ham you know ham I I will explain you later on inshah in detail when it comes but it very simple you'll always see
something like this are you with me brother and sisters
uhuh what is thisuh this is a the verb we will be learning soon okay what is this brothers
and sisters he read and what is
this sa see I'm writing Hamza Hamza is getting a Coury chair
plus it is getting the neck of the so that is Sister
Muna it will always be pronounced no matter where it comes in the sentence but if it
is only in the beginning and when it comes I will be pointing out to you
inshah so brother and sisters uh okay
okay ham means Hamza of assimilation because it gets assimilated with with
the next word okay fine Brother and Sisters where are we now after Al kamaru
what is the next one brothers and sisters what is the next word how will you pronounce
it why you did not pronounce l because it is
sunlet next one brothers and sisters Al
okay okay now we come to Al we said
Al how will you say fine next
one Al next one Al next one
okay masah and next one brother put on also and do the justice
of sh two sh sh on and Sh how will you
write down brother and sisters
[Music]
how will you write down make sure you put sh and otherwise you will not be pronouncing
properly fine brother and sister next one Al fine now we have to again
exercise number two brother we did exercise number one
what is written on top of it what is it written Tamar this is the
plural of this is the plural of tamin what is the plural of tamin
Tamar there's no
[Music]
no tan at the end tamaru
huh and we will learn why it is like that later on
inshallah what's given here tell me brother and sisters is given here so you got to bring
in and we have to make it into a definite noun so brother somebody is very
rich okay okay brother and sisters and what
is next one brother
huh next one brother somebody's sick whom do you want to make
[Laughter]
sick huh okay fine Brother
or you would say banana is delicious Al mjo mango is
delicious somebody is tall and somebody is very
short the boy is short got the idea brother and sisters you got to write it
writing will make you perfect it will give you better understanding of the rules that we are
learning if you will write the exercise inshallah
choose choose the word from uh the first
table and choose the second word which is suitable from the second table but
brother A and B and make a sentence this is a nice
exercise and we have here so what is what what is the first
column so First Column is all madas what are
they all madas and the second column is
all okay brother
okay brother new words okay are you with me brother Abdul
inshah what is the first word brother sweet
sweet sick
Rich tall poor
okay see there's no do you dma is given but now your mind
knows that that is a sun letter so you will pronounce as you will put a
sh when we write do we have to put a uh for for for the beginning you do it
it's better brother said inshallah one day if you will continue your studies you'll be writing
sentences or a small passages without even putting vowel
signs because it's all in your head now we come
to Tam last tamin page number
20 you read the following letters and write
them uhuh with the rules
of uh pronunciation of uh the letters
of sun letters and moon letters huh okay
this I would like you to put proper vowel signs everywhere brother huh not at Al Al is understood you know Al what
is the first one brother everybody what is the next
one so then you will put sh you will put a sh next one brother and sisters
Al Al next one brother and sisters
Al next one yes next one brother proper proper
pronunciation next one next one brother
the brother next one the messenger next
one the face next one the
friend next one Al next
one okay and then Al
Thea next one how will you pronounce
not the head okay next one
brother finger Al ISB
finger what is the next one brother don't think you are reading U this is
Arabic soap huh okay brother and sisters next
one fingernail huh fingernails okay and then
brother and sister next one Al morning afternoon
Al and then ALU and Al is got the idea brother and
sisters inshallah now we are coming to lesson number four and I have to explain
many things to you in lesson number four now brother and sisters in this
lesson we'll start learning the pronouns we will start learning the
pronouns okay and uh there are two parts in this lesson we learn
pronouns and then we will start the verb I will see how much we can do but I
think on Thursday we'll definitely talk about verbs maybe little bit tomorrow now when I teach you about verb brother
I want everybody to be here this is most important people always are afraid of
Arabic verb when they talk about verbs in Arabic they only say this
B I did not say Bob Bob okay they they everybody is
scared but I found Arabic words verbs to be most beautiful
fascinating huh logical brother and I will share with you and I'll show you in a way that you will fall in love with
Arabic verbs inshallah but I will go in detail slowly slowly and explain you everything that explanation in book
easily uh somebody has to show you these things that will be coming in second part of Lesson Four in the first part of
Lesson Four brother the pronouns are coming so when the pronouns are coming uh we
have to now learn about the pronouns okay what is pronoun brother in Arabic we call it damir remember huh and damir
is also ISM huh in the group of isir comes huh
why it comes in the group of isum because it also has Dand
anything has is are you with me
okay we are going to learn theu form of
ISU form of pronoun we are going to learnu form of pronoun okay we are going to
learn now pronoun is a word used as a substitute for a noun
so that you don't repeat noun all the time or a
pronouns stand in place of nouns to avoid repeating
it if I say to you Muhammad came and Muhammad s and
Muhammad ate and Muhammad brother it doesn't sound nice to to your
ear what I will say Muhammad came and he sat and he ate now that makes much
easier and it's nicer to the ear so the pronouns come in instead of nouns so
that we avoid repeating it okay fine how many kinds of
pronouns okay in a different way okay brother a pronoun that
refers or includes the speaker the pronoun that refers to the
speaker uh in English we call it first person pronoun it refers to the speaker
we call it first person pronoun can you tell me give me an example of first person
pronoun I and we huh okay a pronoun that refers to the
hearer huh second person and then pronoun that refers to somebody who's not in front of us who's in other room
or away we call it third person are you with me brother it is amazing in in Arabic
language brother we always start the pronoun with the third
person we start with third person and all the verbs uh in its first form in and the
verb when you take it in its original form it is always past tense and it will always say
he it won't say she no don't blame me I didn't invent anything that's the way the language is
it comes with he when we talk about vers we'll we'll do it but it but in pronouns
we also start with he are you with me now what is he it's a singular it's a third person and
what else it is masculine Mash now brothers and sisters in Arabic language
either a thing has to be a masculine Orin feminine no in in between
no no in between either he or she anything has to be pair okay so we start
with singular he then in Arabic language brother and sisters we have something very special
because Arabic is very precise when you say two you mean
two okay in English we say he and then we say
they even if they are two they you say they but in Arabic if there are two you
mean two and not three when you say they it means three
or more than three if it is less than three then it is two and that is dual
okay so we have in Arabic language singular huh and then dual and then
plural okay brother I'll write down singular
and then we have duel and then
plural are you with me brother and sisters
okay today we will learn only third person and then tomorrow inshallah we we
learn the rest of it and I've got a small song for it I'll be singing for the next few days and
that will also hammer in your mind the pronouns brother okay
now it's amazing brother how the Arabic language is honestly this is the palm of my hand huh
four fingers and thumb and in each finger there are three sections are you with me okay so if I
say masculine then I have first section
singular dual and plural isn't it amazing brother I think it
is I should say in the language of uh our children it's
cool okay number second finger let's make it feminine this was masculine we
make it feminine so again singular dual plural so these two fingers piece these
two fingers are for third person and then the next two fingers are for the second person same masculine and
feminine and this thumb brother and sisters this thumb is for first person
but then there are only two section so in in thumb we have only singular and
plural okay fine okay brothers and sisters we start
now third person it's
called what is it call Al again those with uru they have an
advantage what is the meaning of g absent he's absent he's not here huh okay which means somebody not in front
of us we are talking about somebody who is not here with us third person huh we call it third person we start with
singular what is the singular brother what is it brother and sisters H what is
next one du hum and what is plural brother and
sisters home so he they to to huh and then
they okay now this is as you know it is masculine
huh okay we call itak okay and then we come to muas maybe
I should write down here alakar please write down alakar next to
it and then I will write down this is alakar brother and then
I'll write down here mu okay and then it will
become Hi and then ha again and
then H are you with me brother and sisters it is
H between one
M feminine brother muas is feminine this is masculine brother
huh and this is feminine now you have the
handout would you like to go to the handout brothers and sisters I think it's page number six or
seven one more brother
muham right there page number n nine page number nine
okay okay brothers and sisters here we are first finger just just like
tby first section who are section second
section third section home second finger feminine
here is it if you know it then I can do the whole thing but if you want to do it
gradually then we will only do this ha whom
are you with me brother and sisters are you with me but if you
already know a little bit of Arabic then you know the next one is M what is it brother and
sisters there's a fata there that is second person
and this is your first person no third person I beg your pardon third
person okay since you have it in your uh
handouts brother it's easy for you to see there what will be the second person brother and
sisters masculine an are you with me next
one and plural what will be the fourth finger Mas
feminine are you with me brothers and sisters and then
and because you know it I'm not writing it brother and sisters uhuh but sister Sal do you know the second
person and then and then we got to memorize it and you got to use your finger it will help
you just like taking out Tas huh okay you will remember okay ready
and
[Music]
if you want to sing with me you're welcome to sing brother we we'll sing in a chorus now insh in couple of days you
will you will be singing in your car or you know while you are taking shower you'll be singing
an
[Music]
got the idea brother okay
so brother try to memorize it okay try to meor now what are these pronouns brothers and
sisters these are called what are they it's written there
huh okay what is the meaning of monilon they are detached like a house which is detached nothing attached to it
detached are you with me brother and sisters so they come on their own they
will stand on their own and brother all of them are are you listening all of
them are D what are they are it means they
are they are all Maru okay they are Maru they will come as a
m most of the time they will come as a m huh okay okay here is an
example how will you translate I'm a teacher so what is
Ana because if you say an means I I want to tell you I know that okay more than that it
is and M is always Maru and it is definite
are you with me brothers and sisters so these pronouns are definite and they are
allu there's a different form for man okay this form we call
it please say with me three
times means detached pronoun standing on its own and they will come they are allu
they will come as a so what is the translation you are a
student so what is are you with me brother
who he is a student are you with me who Tali okay we won't go into hum and H now
whom later on we'll go but this is how it will work so first and foremost brother you will try to memorize it it's
easy because I will be repeating so many times this thing that inshallah you will catch up and inshallah you will
also uh memorize the song So then it will become even more easier on you I
think it's time to take a little break and recharge our batteries huh inshah so
let let us take a break so brother and sisters I wrote down for you on the board all the
pronouns I only meant to do third person today but since you all know I have
written it all huh look at it carefully brother and sisters Al which is third person
masculine Al okay right now if you say masculine it is good enough slowly slowly you'll
get to say also please use your finger it's it's nice way
of doing it for a few days use your finger and then second
finger and then we come to Al which is feminine
masculine Al and and that
is see the Hamza of is I Put a Little Neck of Hamza on it it
is most important okay if you don't put a fat it's okay but neck is important
H it's like putting a DOT huh uh neck are you with me brother and sisters
and then and then we come
to are you with me brother Al the one who speaks okay and that is first
person and in that MIM first person both muak and muas are
same right now in this lesson Dr s Dr ABD Rahim uses only uh
who here he he goes he goes very slowly slowly the pronouns will come slowly but
I thought we can just practice them every day so that you can become stronger okay one more time I'll sing
for you brother and sisters because I believe this is a nice way of strengthening
your uh understanding and and and memorization brother
[Music]
I need a now okay are you with me brother and sisters okay so that was about the
pronouns and what kind of a pronouns they are what are
they see say three times with meon what is the mean meaning ofas
detached on their own detached and remember brothers and sisters they are
Maru what are they they are M okay you will remember them they'll come as a m
insh now we come to lesson number four in the main
book brother and sisters we come to the in the main
book look at the first word brother Al Al
what do you see Al uh singular it's singular right now
uh uh the sentence is not given so it's just a a noun but it is
definite so how will you how will you now uh translate it the
house the house and what is next brother f b
brother from you made it B why huh she
from you made it into Maj there has to be a reason why did how could you do
it huh the reason is that before the noun preposition
came sister Fatima Al remember two
F and now you are saying F huh
why because preposition came what is it preposition what is called preposition in
Arabic particle that pulls down are you with me brother and
sisters I'll write down here for you
preposition means brother and sister Haru
jar particle of pulling down what did I what did it do from
two it pulled it down to T huh who did that sister AB did you
do it I didn't do it some somebody did it pull it down and that
was so brother and sisters this is our start of learning the Maj form are you
with me so far we were onlyu now we will be ma we'll be doing
Maj so I will say to you one thing and you will always apply me this way are you with me are
everybody looking at me and listening if I say to you are you'll reply to me is
ma what will you tell me means is became ma it became then it got a are you with
me it's like salutation if I sayam alayum you sayum if I say to you is if I say to you your reply will
be is are you with me in the middle of the class I will suddenly
say you will have to say but if I tell you Salam alikum what will you say and if I tell
you you will tell me that way you will remember whenever brother you will never make a mistake in
reading Quran because you will know it's har and there is some has to be Maj
there is no if and but that ha will pull the noun and make it into maju are you
with me so we are learning here four four har we will learn in
lesson number four but right now only two are coming what is Fe in and the
next one is Allah what is on are you with me okay fine
Brother see became and I ask you why because
of pull it down okay do became
the see brother far how I am
pronouncing I did not pronounce the I did not pronoun Al I did not
pronounce lamb and in I only pronounce Hamza and I did not pronounce the lamb
but if I say I did not pronounce Hamza I did not pronounce the lamb huh you get to get
into practice okay brother now I will tell you something
else slowly slowly brother did I tell you did we learn brother and sisters
that m is always and is
always now we go one step forward is onlyu if it is one word
word what did I say about is
onlyu if it is one word and there are different kinds
of what are they are you with me brother because this is an intensive
course I'll I tell you many things that I would normally wouldn't tell but because we are meeting every day and
every day I'm going to repeat it and inshallah you will understand it and retain in your
mind so there are about five kinds of it will come
slowly slowly and when they come I will be pointing out to you brother the first
form ofab is if it is one word it is
Maru what is the second form ofab second form ofab is that instead of
one word it has got preposition followed by
is ma okay brother and sisters now I want
you to write something on your book uh you make a note of it write there okay if you
see brother and sisters what is Fe that I
know preposition you can say for the time being preposition later on you'll say what will you
say if it is har jar then the is has to be ma
remember but you got to if I shout at you you will shout back at
meuh you will shout back at me ma okay so here we have Fe as a jar
followed by is Maj are you with me this is is Maj
okay together we have a short name huh
together we call
it
[Music]
Ma are you with me brother and sisters inshah in two days you'll get
used to it so what if I say I can
say if I say in short you can say to me what is the meaning of
J it means there's a followed by so you will
say are you with me fine I know this is quite a bit that I'm
telling you uh but because I'll be telling you every day and inshallah you will understand today if you do not
understand 100% I always told you don't worry uhuh it's normal it will come to
us slowly slowly okay now I go back to you one more time
brother sentence what is sentence a group of
word which make complete sense what is phrase It's a group of word but it does
not give you complete sense are you with me brother if I tell you
translate in the house is it a sentence no what is it phrase what do you call
phrase in Arabic a beautiful thing that you call in Arabic
huh are you ready to write down huh
can you read brother and sisters sister Salma can you read what did I say Shu
jumla okay now jumla is a sentence what is the meaning of Shu jumla
huh no no Shu means something looks like jumla but it is not a
jumla are you with me Shibu means it looks similar but then it is not it's
not a jumla it's a Shu jumla it's look it looks like a jumla huh it is similar
to jumla but it is not jumla what do you call Shibu jumla in English phrase what do you call phrase
in Arabic Shibu jumla what do you call Shibu jumla in English phrase what do you call phrase in Arabic Shibu huh so
inshallah slowly slowly we will Master it huh but this is quite a bit it's not
in the book but I found that if I understand this gradually gradually then
when I go in the in a deeper water I'm comfortable I know how to swim you know
okay so brother and sisters if I tell
you mam what did I say
muhamad because huh brother how will you translate Muhammad is in the Masid huh
okay so where is Mt Muhammad where isab
M Mas you said it right so what is what
is there is still more to it but that I won't tell you now as you become
stronger then I will add few more things will be in the m in the mid not just m in the m in the Masid because the whole
thing is a Shibu and brother how you say in Arabic
muhamad huh and together I will write
down today together isn't it I know it is quite a bit to swallow
but it will come because I am going to repeat it all the time huh so if you want to say in short
brother you already said it correctly in the Masid is the what is in the Masid Char
Maj what is in the Masid Muhammad so mean from grammar point of
view J Ma and what is brother J Ma this particular case it's a sh it's a phrase
so if I were to tell you in English which you will understand a little better that in the Masjid uh it is a
preposition followed by noun in the genitive case together it is a phrase
and it is the predicate what is it brother subject and predicate is it correct subject object
and predicate where is the predicate in the Masjid huh and what is in preposition and what is Masid it's
the noun in genitive case from our point of view are you with me brother sister so now watch for it and cash
theab what I going to do now you will cash theab in the
sentences okay let us see it's going to be interesting but brother and
sister do not get worried if you cannot find it right because I am going
to repeat it and so many times uh are you listening to me brother that it will come out of your
both ears so and when you are sleeping and turning your side you will say you'll turn your side and you'll say
J ma are with me brother inshah yes
brother far sh sh say three times sh sh
sh which means phrase means it's not a complete sentence looks like a sentence but it is not a complete sentence it is
a phrase yes in the Masid on the table uh in the
market under the table over the table behind the board in front of the board
these are all sh Shu huh okay and we'll be dealing it one by one as they come in
the lesson yes brother far any other question brother you will be with me now brother so you know
pronoun and you know that pronoun are definite so they are M and then theab
can be the can be
okay I want you to brother Muhammad keep on turning the pages uh later on uh you can go to this
page at home during weekend brother and sisters and see if you can understand it turn on the pages and I'll tell you to
stop and then we will tell everybody here page number 1 17 sweet
17 okay page number 17 in your hand out but you do not have to swallow
everything brother we are going to do slowly slowly what is the the title sh
can you read sh but we say sh and what is it the
phrase huh and slowly slowly you will we will Master this are you with me now
keep that in mind and at home you can uh read it and try to understand but I assure you brother I assure you that
within 10 sessions you will know all these things inshallah you will know all these things brother in